{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green60\blue192;\red237\green237\blue237;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15960\viewh11520\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 NEED TO ORDER THESE AND THEN WORK THROUGH THEM AS I DO THE MBX CONVERSION (NO, just have David Farmer use my updated files)\
\
\
from Dave Kung on 9/15 - one of his colleagues\
\
The box on page 55 made no sense to me, so after failing to find a way\
to reword it to make it reasonable I found\
http://math.stackexchange.com/questions/364576/can-a-function-be-increasing-at-a-point\
which made the box seem even worse.\
\
I decided to point this out to the students and replace the box with:\
\
If f'(x)>0 on an interval, then f is increasing on that interval.\
If f'(x)<0 on an interval, then f is decreasing on that interval.\
\
\
from Steve on 9/11\
\
Thanks, Matt. That\'92s what I was trying, but then I get that the portion of $A_2$ that lies between $x=0.5$ and $x=2$ is around 6 instead of 5.4.\
 \
Steve\
 \
From: boelkinm.gvsu@gmail.com [mailto:boelkinm.gvsu@gmail.com] On Behalf Of Matt Boelkins\
Sent: Friday, September 11, 2015 9:23 AM\
To: Steven Schlicker\
Subject: Re: AC\
\
 \
-0.05*(x+1)*(x-0.5)*(x-4)*(x-5)*(x-6.5)\
 \
On Fri, Sep 11, 2015 at 9:19 AM, Steven Schlicker <schlicks@gvsu.edu> wrote:\
Hi Matt,\
 \
Can you tell me what function you used for g in exercise 1 in section 5.2?\
 \
Thanks.\
 \
Steve\
\
from Steve on 9/18\
\
On page 60 the paragraph after Activity 1.15 reads \'93In particular, note that $f\'92$ is increasing if and only if both $f$ is concave up, and similarly $f\'92$ is increasing if\
and only if $f\'92\'92$ is positive. Likewise, $f\'92$ is decreasing if and only if both $f$ is concave down, and $f\'92$ is decreasing if and only if $f\'92\'92$ is negative.\'94\
 \
Should this read either\
 \
-        \'93In particular, note that $f\'92$ is increasing if and only if both $f$ is concave up and $f\'92\'92$ is positive. Likewise, $f\'92$ is decreasing if and only if both $f$ is concave down and $f\'92\'92$ is negative.\'94\
\
or\
-        \'93In particular, note that $f\'92$ is increasing if and only if $f$ is concave up, and similarly $f\'92$ is increasing if and only if $f\'92\'92$ is positive. Likewise, $f\'92$ is decreasing if and only if $f$ is concave down, and $f\'92$ is decreasing if and only if $f\'92\'92$ is negative.\'94\
\
 \
Steve\
\
From me:  the wording in Exercise 1c in Section 1.2 sucks.  Don\'92t do the algebra first \'85 defeats the purpose\
\
Steve:  Should $f(2)$ be $f(2.07)$ in part (f) of Activity 1.22 on page 82?  (Yes, it should)\
\
From Dave K on 9.25\
\
Since one of the common misconceptions about tangent lines is that they can only touch the function once, it would be great if at least one of the functions shown (figure 1.47) had the function bend back and intersect the tangent line.\
\
From David on 9.30\
\
In AC, exercise 2 of section 6.1, it may be a good idea to include a restriction that a > 0.  That way the students can draw a more representative curve and there is a unique solution (rather than two solutions).\
\
From me on 10.6\
\
Exercise 1.4 #2c: Use the limit definition of the derivative to find a formula for $h'(x)$ where $h(x) = 5x^2 - 4x + 12.$\
\
\'93h\'94 is a poor choice here, due to the limit definition\
\
On 10.7\
\
You are totally right.  That function f should be f(x) = 1.5 - 0.1875x.  Thanks for pointing this out ... several things to fix in what follows.\
\
Matt\
\
On Tue, Oct 6, 2015 at 9:23 AM, Steven Schlicker <schlicks@gvsu.edu> wrote:\
Hi Matt,\
 \
I have a question about the sump example on pages 372-373. You have given the formula for the radius as a function of height as f(x)=1.5-0.375x. This, however, gives a radius of 0 when x=4 instead of a radius of 0.75. When I calculate the slope of this line I get (1.5-0.75)/(-4) = -0.1875 instead of -0.375. This makes f(x) = 1.5-0.1875x, for which f(4) = 0.75. Does that seem right? This would change the volume approximation and, consequently, the force and work approximations, and the integrand.\
\
From Allan Bickle on 10/9\
\
In your book you define Simpson's Rule with the formula Sn=(2Mn+Tn)/3 without saying what n is.  If n is the number of subintervals, the subscript on the left should be 2n.  (A student pointed out that the formula in the book wasn't working with the webwork problems.)  In any case, n should be defined.\
Also, in the table on the next page, the error for S4 is listed as 10^-10.  This should be 0, no?  It appears the error in the error is due to rounding error.\
\
From student Jason J on 10/15\
\
I noticed on page 95 of Active Calculus, problem 4e, a question is ended with a period where there should be a question mark.\
Attached is a screen capture of problem 4e.\
\
\
From me on 10/17\
\
Sec 1.8 #3 \'97 need to address the origin, rather than the \'93starting point\'94 in this exercise.  Elaborate on the \'93along an axis\'94 part\
\
\
From student George Glessner on 10/22\
\
I believe I have found an error in your textbook. On page 124, example 2.3. You state that g\'92(t) = 2t + 1 where it should really be g\'92(t) = 2t + 2.\
\
\
From David on 10/23\
\
I goofed up exercise #4 in section 7.2 of AC (about the cats and mice).  In part (e), it should say, "Suppose that C = 60" rather than 20.  Also, question (f) should read, "What is the smallest number of cats you would need to keep the mice population from growing arbitrarily large?"\
\
From Mitch Keller on 10/30\
\
Couple of notes on section 3.2 in the 2015 edition. Activity 3.6 has a copy/paste from Activity 3.5 where you still refer to function h and constants a and b instead of function L and constants A, c, and k. Also, this section keeps referring to critical values, when the revision to 3.1 now would want critical numbers there instead of values.\
\
\
From me on 10/30\
\
There\'92s a bad page break on p. 171\
\
\
From student Jake Kolniak on 11/2\
\
error on p 168 where it says \'93concave up on (0, \\sqrt\{3/2\})\'94, when it should be on the \'93opposite\'94 of that interval.\
\
Me on 11/3\
\
In Activity 3.4, still referring to \'93critical values\'94 vs \'93critical numbers\'94; need to get this straightened out.\
\
In Section 3.3 exercise 1, \'93critical values\'94 versus \'93critical numbers\'94\
\
\
Mitch Keller, after the semester - to make the average more complicated\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 I\'92ll take this as my opportunity to request that Activity 4.12 be amended so that the time range is 40 minutes (or really anything that makes the three subintervals not all have the same length).
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
From Steve on 11/3\
\
-        On page 484, the upper limit in the summation for S_n in the second bullet in the summary should only go to n, not infinity.\
\
\'b7       Exercise 4 on page 486 mentions a comparison test for improper integrals that we do not include in AC. We might consider replacing the opening sentences of that exercise with something like \'93In the Limit Comparison Test we compared the behavior of a series to one whose behavior we know. In this test we used the limit of the ratio of corresponding terms of the series to determine if the comparison is valid. In this exercise we see how we can compare two series directly, term by term, without using a limit of sequence. First we consider an example.\'94\
\
\
Suggestions from Brian Stanley on 11/4\
\
I had a couple of suggestions for the next revision of  Active Calculus:\
\
1) \
I wanted to ask if you had thought of asking the students to use Wolfram Alpha to graph the interesting relation in this exercise (EX 2.7.1 on page 148 of Active calculus). It produces a rather nice graph which students can use to help understand their answers to the question. \
\
As you know the derivative has three zeros which correspond to the 6 places where the tangent line is horizontal. \
This gave rise to a nice discussion in class. \
\
I just thought it might be nice to add another part and ask students to use technology to graph this relation and explain how their answers to what could become part (A) of this problem relate to the graph. \
\
\
\
2) \
 In the preview activity for Improper Integrals (Preview Activity 6.5 on page 377) many of my students missed the point on part (e) where you ask "why?". \
I like very much this preview activity as a way of introducing improper integrals.\
But only a few of my groups actually related the answer of 100 % to the fact that all callers would be accounted for in the limit. \
i.e., if you are prepared to wait ("for ever") your call should eventually get answered. \
Perhaps we could rephrase that in the following way: \
\
What is the value of this limit and explain the result in the context of the problem. \
\
Did you have any thoughts on these? \
\
\
Lastly, I have lot of ideas about how questions could be slightly reworded to get the results we (you and the users) are all looking for. \
If you are interested in getting this feedback I'd be glad to send you the occasional email like this when I can remember to do so. If not, please let me know and I'll keep my mouth firmly shut :-)\
best regards,\
Brian \
\
\
from me on 11/12/15\
\
p. 116 of the activities solutions manual \'97 look at the evaluation of T(3)\
\
\
From Mitch Keller on 11/12/15\
\
I found a typo on page 217 in Section 4.1. You\'92ve got \'93to indication motion\'94, which I assume should be \'93to indicate motion\'94.\
\
\
From Geoff Lee-Dadswell on 11/12\
\
Do you mind a comment?  I notice at the very start of the book that you are making heavy use of velocity to develop students intuition about average and instantaneous rates of change.  This is admirable, particularly since many students taking an intro. calculus course would be taking an intro. physics course at the same time so this would bring about some nice reinforcement between the two courses.  However, are you aware of how much difficulty students have with the concept of velocity?\
\
For students simultaneously taking intro physics, where the concept of velocity is being developed in detail (if the professor is doing it right...many physics professors just plunge on assuming that students understand velocity...), the opening parts of your book should be very good.  But for other students you might not get much conceptual bang for the buck out of using velocity, because their concept of velocity may be very flawed.  Your section 1.1 goes some way towards introducing the concept of velocity, but I think the experience of teaching velocity in physics courses suggests that your section 1.1 is probably insufficient.  You don't need to devote as much space to it as a physics text would since you have no need to introduce the vector nature of velocity.  But I think at the moment many students may stumble with your first chapter because of their poor understanding of the meaning of velocity.  You could probably address this by having a section before your current section 1.1 which conceptually introduces velocity in a bit more detail than is currently done in 1.1.\
\
I think the idea of using velocity to develop the concept of the derivative is a sound one (I can't think of another concrete quantity which is likely to be better for the purpose).  But I think you need to do more to develop the velocity concept.\
\
\
From Brian Stanley on 11/13\
\
I had a question connected with Section 3.1 Preview Activity 3.1. \
Did you mean for the questions here to apply only to the  function shown on that domain or were students to assume that the function decreases without bound on both sides? This would affect the answer to the question as to whether the function has a global minimum. My students are split down the middle with this one. \
\
\
From Brian Stanley on 11/23\
\
I think their may be a typo on page 424 - a missing equals sign in the second line containing the initial value. \
Y(0) \
\
I have another suggestion or possible correction for you. In section 7.1. exercise 1 part (a) you ask for the derivative dT/dt at T = 0. Now I think you meant t = 0 and T = 0. \
\
Though one can certainly work out dT/dt at T=0, (it is 5 degrees per minute) but this would probably not be of interest since the coffee is clearly cooling in an ambient temperature of 75degrees) \
\
it seems that given what follows in the rest of the problem and the fact that you specified an initial condition in part a of T(0) - 105, I am guessing you actually meant t = 0 which gives us dT/dt= -2 degrees per minute at t = 0. \
\
Sorry that sounded very convoluted when I read it over again. \
Let me know if my assumptions are incorrect there,. \
best regards\
Brian \
\
\
From Allan Bickle on 11/30\
\
I think the "only if" in the statement of the Alternating Series Test in your book is wrong.  For example, if you form a series by interweaving the terms 2/n and -1/n (2-1+1-1/2+2/3-1/3+1/2-1/4+...), then the series alternates and the terms go to 0, but the series diverges.\
\
\
Me on 12/3\
\
Section 3.3 Problems 2b and 2c - say that a and b are positive constants\
\
In #2b, change the interval from starting at 1/b to 1/2b\
\
\
Spencer VanderLaan on 12/12\
\
For the solutions of the activity you posted of Activity 4.8 letter D, should the answer be -492 instead of  -608 like the answer key says?  I thought that the Integral of 3x^2 on the interval of [2,5] was 117/3 not 8/3.  Which would make the rest of the integral = (3(117/3))-(4(609/4))=-492\
\
\
From Paul Latiolais\'92s review on 12/29\
\
For example, I would change the question "How does the notion of limit allow us to move from average velocity to instantaneous velocity?" to "How do we manipulate average velocity to compute instantaneous velocity?"\
 \
Example 2: Instead of  "What is sigma notation and how does this enable us to write Riemann sums in an\
abbreviated form?", say "How can we write Riemann sums in an abbreviated form?"\
\
From Mike Shulman on 1/19\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 One feedback/question that just came up in my mind: at the end of\
section 1.8 you say that "it is straightforward to show that the\
linearization of f(x) = sin(x) at the point (0,0) is given by L(x)=x"\
so that we can conclude lim_\{x->0\} sin(x)/x = 1.\'a0 However, I don't\
know any way of calculating the derivative of sin(x) that doesn't\
require *using* (explicitly or implicitly) the fact that lim_\{x->0\}\
sin(x)/x = 1.\'a0 Is there one?\
\
From Patti Hunter 1/25\
\
In the box at the bottom of the page showing that T_n is 1/2(R_n + L_n), I think there is a delta x missing in the second line from the bottom.\
\
From Brian Stanley, 1/27\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 I had another suggestion for your text. On page 95 for problem 4 part (f) I wonder if it might be better to say something like this: " how do your investigations in (d) lead to a particularly important fact about the function \
y = e^x ? "\
\
I changed this for my students and many more got what you were seeking with this small change. \
As it is currently worded most of my students didn't realize that we were asking them to observe that e^x is its own derivative.\
\
From me:  in the activity workbook, activities 1.16 and 1.17 are reversed\
\
\
From me:  need to revisit how the exponential function is introduced in Section 2.2 \'97 maybe think about a GGB activity in Section 2.1.  For Section 2.3 (product rule) preview activity, require justification in the T/F questions\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 Patti Hunter 2/5/16\
There is a typo in the first sentence after the caption of Fig. 6.16 on p. 372.\'a0 It should say "the positive y-axis to the right."\
\
\
From me, 2/29/16 - bad page break on page 171-172\
Also, still have critical numbers/values/points stuff to fix in this section and following\
\
From Brian Stanley 3/9/16:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 Exercise 2(b) in section 3.3\
My students always get pretty stuck on this problem. It turns out to be much more sophisticated than the other three. I wonder if it might be more tractable for them if we said assume that a and b are both positive and make the interval [0, 4/b] ? instead of [1/b, b] which presents the students with a little confusion when b = 1.\
\
From Brian Stanley 3/16/16\
\
I was thinking about Exercise 3 in section 7.4 and thought that it might be better if we write k = -1 and k = -10 in part b since k<0 in these problems. Just wanted to make that suggestion. My students got a little confused since they had already determined that k must be negative in part (a).\
\
\
From Jasmine Walker 4/5/16\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 On letter c of Activity 6.2, are you asking for the area bounded by the two curves or the small pointy area bounded by the two curves and the x-axis. The solution given seems to be for the area bounded by the two curves whereas the problems seems to be asking for the smaller region. Could you please clarify?\
Thanks,\
Jasmine\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
(Fix this in Ted\'92s solution of Activity 6.2)\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs20 \cf0 From David Hilker - in the solutions manual\
\
Activity 3.14: 
\f3\fs30 (d) Dierentiating with respect to 
\i t
\i0 , we now find \'85 1/16 (should be 9/16)
\f2\fs26 \
\
\
From Brian Stanley on 5.5.16\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This is about the third exercise in section 5.4 .\
Some of my students burn up an awful loft of time (spinning their wheels) trying to integrate part (d) of this \
nice set of problems. They don't really understand at this point that not all functions have elementary antiderivatives. \
\
I wonder if it might be a good idea to state something like "one of the following problems does not have an elementary antiderivative and we don't expect you to actually evaluate this integral". [If you read the last sentence in the actual problem it actually says "Use your chosen approach to evaluate each integral" which leads students to believe that each on is actually workable]\
\
Of course we could just ask them to check each of their answers by putting them into Wolfram Alpha too. \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\
From Humaira Syed on 6.7.16\
\
 
\f1 Current text: "We then have the approximation y(0.1) ~ y1 = y0 + delta y = 1 - 0.2 = 0.8"\
\
I believe it should be:\
"We then have the approximation y(0.2) ~ y1 = ...."\
Since delta-t is 0.2. This correction also corresponds to the graph given\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
%%%%%%%%\
\
For my web page:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 Sure! Thanks for doing this!\
\
Angie\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b\fs30 \cf0 From: 
\b0 <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:boelkinm.gvsu@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 boelkinm.gvsu@gmail.com}}> on behalf of Matt Boelkins <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:boelkinm@gvsu.edu"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 boelkinm@gvsu.edu}}>\

\b Date: 
\b0 Monday, January 11, 2016 6:06 PM\

\b To: 
\b0 Angie Hodge <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:amhodge@unomaha.edu"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 amhodge@unomaha.edu}}>\

\b Cc: 
\b0 "{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:faan.tone.liu@Colorado.EDU"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 faan.tone.liu@Colorado.EDU}}" <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:faan.tone.liu@colorado.edu"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 faan.tone.liu@colorado.edu}}>\

\b Subject: 
\b0 Re: active calculus web page\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs20 \cf0 Can I put your URL on my site right away?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 \
On Mon, Jan 11, 2016 at 5:36 PM, Angie Hodge \uc0\u8234 <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:amhodge@unomaha.edu"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 amhodge@unomaha.edu}}>\uc0\u8236  wrote:\
\
Thank you! :)\
\
On Jan 11, 2016, at 3:45 PM, Faan Tone Liu <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:faan.tone.liu@colorado.edu"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 faan.tone.liu@Colorado.EDU}}> wrote:\
\
Sure!\
Faan Tone\
\
On Sun, Jan 10, 2016 at 2:51 PM, Angie Hodge \uc0\u8234 <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:amhodge@unomaha.edu"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 amhodge@unomaha.edu}}>\uc0\u8236  wrote:\
\
Hi Matt,\
\
That's a super idea!! Faan Tone, would you be ok with this? Matt has a great Active Learning Calculus textbook. I think a link to his book would be very appropriate.\'a0\
\
Angie :)\
\
On Jan 10, 2016, at 1:08 PM, Matt Boelkins <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:boelkinm@gvsu.edu"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 boelkinm@gvsu.edu}}> wrote:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs20 \cf0 Hi Angie,\
\
Dana had a good suggestion to me: he thought that your team should put a link on your web page ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://math.colorado.edu/activecalc1/index.html"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 http://math.colorado.edu/activecalc1/index.html}}) to my Active Calculus textbook page, and I should put one on my page ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://faculty.gvsu.edu/boelkinm/Home/Active_Calculus.html"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc2 http://faculty.gvsu.edu/boelkinm/Home/Active_Calculus.html}}) to your site.\'a0 What do you think?\'a0 I realize your team hasn't yet gone fully public, but I'd be glad to do this whenever you're ready.\'a0 Dana thought something like "If you are looking for active learning materials maintained by BOLA" on my page would be nice, and you could do likewise on yours.\
\
I'm open to whatever you think here.\
\
Thanks,\
Matt\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs20 \cf0 \
\
}